README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">🔄 OmniConv</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Universal AI-Powered File Converter & Compressor</strong><br>
  Convert audio, video, images, and documents with OCR support — all locally, no cloud needed.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#-features">Features</a> •
  <a href="#-quick-start">Quick Start</a> •
  <a href="#-supported-formats">Formats</a> •
  <a href="#-tech-stack">Tech Stack</a> •
</p>

---

## ✨ Features

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| 🎵 **Audio Conversion** | Convert between MP3, WAV, FLAC, OGG, M4A, AAC, AIFF, WMA and more |
| 🎬 **Video Conversion** | MP4, AVI, MKV, MOV, WEBM conversions + GIF extraction |
| 📺 **YouTube Downloader** | Direct browser download, playlist support, quality selection & realtime progress |
| 🖼️ **Image Conversion** | PNG, JPG, WEBP, GIF, BMP, TIFF, HEIC, ICO support |
| 📄 **Document Conversion** | PDF to DOCX with layout preservation |
| 🔍 **OCR (AI-Powered)** | PaddleOCR with 35+ languages — works completely offline |
| 📦 **Smart Compression** | Reduce file sizes with minimal quality loss using target size |
| 📁 **Batch Processing** | Convert multiple files at once with drag & drop |
| ⚡ **Optimized Performance** | Smart caching for invalid files & multi-core processing support |
| ⚙️ **System Integration** | Auto-start capability & persistent user settings |
| 🌙 **Dark/Light Mode** | Beautiful UI with theme switching |
| 🔒 **100% Local** | All processing happens on your machine — no data leaves |

> ⚠️ **Note:** OCR functionality is temporarily disabled due to CUDA/GPU compatibility issues that prevent proper testing. This feature will be enabled in an upcoming update once the dependencies are resolved.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python
- FFmpeg (for audio/video processing)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/OmniConv.git
cd OmniConv

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv

# Activate virtual environment
# Windows:
.venv\Scripts\activate
# Linux/macOS:
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the application
python run.py
```

### 🌐 Open in Browser

```
http://localhost:5000
```

---

## 📋 Supported Formats

<details>
<summary><b>🎵 Audio Formats</b></summary>

| Input | Output |
|-------|--------|
| MP3, WAV, OGG, FLAC, M4A, AAC, AC3, ALAC, DTS, EAC3, TTA, WV, AIFF, APE, WMA, OPUS | MP3, WAV, OGG, FLAC, M4A, AIFF |

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>🎬 Video Formats</b></summary>

| Input | Output |
|-------|--------|
| MP4, AVI, MKV, MOV, WMV, FLV, WEBM, 3GP, MPEG, M4V, TS, MTS, VOB | MP4, WEBM, AVI, MKV, MOV, GIF |

> 💡 **Tip:** You can also extract audio from videos to MP3, WAV, AAC, or OGG!

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>🖼️ Image Formats</b></summary>

| Input | Output |
|-------|--------|
| JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, TIFF, WEBP, ICO, HEIC, HEIF | PNG, JPG, WEBP, GIF, BMP, TIFF, ICO, PDF |

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>📄 Document Formats</b></summary>

| Input | Output |
|-------|--------|
| PDF, DOCX, DOC, TXT, RTF, ODT, XLS, XLSX, MD | DOCX, PDF, TXT |

> 🔍 **OCR Languages:** English, Polish, German, French, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Arabic, Russian, and 25+ more!

</details>

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| **Flask** | Web framework |
| **PaddleOCR** | AI-powered text recognition (faster than Tesseract) |
| **MoviePy** | Video processing |
| **Pydub** | Audio processing |
| **Pillow** | Image processing |
| **FFmpeg** | Media encoding/decoding |
| **python-docx** | Document handling |

---

### 🏠 Main Converter
Clean, intuitive interface for single file conversion with drag & drop support.

### 📦 Batch Conversion
Process multiple files at once — grouped by type with individual format selection.

### 🗜️ Smart Compression
Set your target file size and let the AI optimize quality automatically.

### 📜 Conversion History
Track all your conversions with timestamps and easy re-download.

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
OmniConv/
├── app/
│   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── api.py          # REST API endpoints
│   │   └── views.py        # Page routes
│   ├── services/
│   │   ├── audio.py        # Audio conversion
│   │   ├── video.py        # Video conversion
│   │   ├── image.py        # Image conversion
│   │   ├── document.py     # Document conversion
│   │   ├── compressor.py   # File compression
│   │   └── ocr.py          # OCR service
│   ├── static/
│   │   ├── css/styles.css  # Styling
│   │   └── js/app.js       # Frontend logic
│   └── templates/          # HTML templates
├── uploads/                # Temporary uploads
├── outputs/                # Converted files
├── requirements.txt
└── run.py                  # Entry point
```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

Environment variables (optional):

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `FLASK_DEBUG` | `False` | Enable debug mode |
| `MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH` | `500MB` | Maximum upload size |
| `UPLOAD_FOLDER` | `./uploads` | Upload directory |
| `OUTPUT_FOLDER` | `./outputs` | Output directory |

Commit message:

docs: Update README to reflect LightOnOCR integration, remove OCR disablement notice, and correct repository URL.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">🔄 OmniConv</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Universal AI-Powered File Converter & Compressor</strong><br>
  Convert audio, video, images, and documents with OCR support — all locally, no cloud needed.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#-features">Features</a> •
  <a href="#-quick-start">Quick Start</a> •
  <a href="#-supported-formats">Formats</a> •
  <a href="#-tech-stack">Tech Stack</a> •
</p>

---

## ✨ Features

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| 🎵 **Audio Conversion** | Convert between MP3, WAV, FLAC, OGG, M4A, AAC, AIFF, WMA and more |
| 🎬 **Video Conversion** | MP4, AVI, MKV, MOV, WEBM conversions + GIF extraction |
| 📺 **YouTube Downloader** | Direct browser download, playlist support, quality selection & realtime progress |
| 🖼️ **Image Conversion** | PNG, JPG, WEBP, GIF, BMP, TIFF, HEIC, ICO support |
| 📄 **Document Conversion** | PDF to DOCX with layout preservation |
| 🔍 **OCR (AI-Powered)** | LightOnOCR (2-1B) — state-of-the-art vision-language model |
| 📦 **Smart Compression** | Reduce file sizes with minimal quality loss using target size |
| 📁 **Batch Processing** | Convert multiple files at once with drag & drop |
| ⚡ **Optimized Performance** | Smart caching for invalid files & multi-core processing support |
| ⚙️ **System Integration** | Auto-start capability & persistent user settings |
| 🌙 **Dark/Light Mode** | Beautiful UI with theme switching |
| 🔒 **100% Local** | All processing happens on your machine — no data leaves |



---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python
- FFmpeg (for audio/video processing)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/PanPeryskop/OmniConv
cd OmniConv

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv

# Activate virtual environment
# Windows:
.venv\Scripts\activate
# Linux/macOS:
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the application
python run.py
```

### 🌐 Open in Browser

```
http://localhost:5000
```

---

## 📋 Supported Formats

<details>
<summary><b>🎵 Audio Formats</b></summary>

| Input | Output |
|-------|--------|
| MP3, WAV, OGG, FLAC, M4A, AAC, AC3, ALAC, DTS, EAC3, TTA, WV, AIFF, APE, WMA, OPUS | MP3, WAV, OGG, FLAC, M4A, AIFF |

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>🎬 Video Formats</b></summary>

| Input | Output |
|-------|--------|
| MP4, AVI, MKV, MOV, WMV, FLV, WEBM, 3GP, MPEG, M4V, TS, MTS, VOB | MP4, WEBM, AVI, MKV, MOV, GIF |

> 💡 **Tip:** You can also extract audio from videos to MP3, WAV, AAC, or OGG!

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>🖼️ Image Formats</b></summary>

| Input | Output |
|-------|--------|
| JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, TIFF, WEBP, ICO, HEIC, HEIF | PNG, JPG, WEBP, GIF, BMP, TIFF, ICO, PDF |

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>📄 Document Formats</b></summary>

| Input | Output |
|-------|--------|
| PDF, DOCX, DOC, TXT, RTF, ODT, XLS, XLSX, MD | DOCX, PDF, TXT |

> 🔍 **OCR Model:** Uses LightOnOCR-2-1B for high-accuracy text extraction from images and PDFs.

</details>

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| **Flask** | Web framework |
| **Transformers** | LightOnOCR model for advanced text recognition |
| **MoviePy** | Video processing |
| **Pydub** | Audio processing |
| **Pillow** | Image processing |
| **FFmpeg** | Media encoding/decoding |
| **python-docx** | Document handling |

---

### 🏠 Main Converter
Clean, intuitive interface for single file conversion with drag & drop support.

### 📦 Batch Conversion
Process multiple files at once — grouped by type with individual format selection.

### 🗜️ Smart Compression
Set your target file size and let the AI optimize quality automatically.

### 📜 Conversion History
Track all your conversions with timestamps and easy re-download.

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
OmniConv/
├── app/
│   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── api.py          # REST API endpoints
│   │   └── views.py        # Page routes
│   ├── services/
│   │   ├── audio.py        # Audio conversion
│   │   ├── video.py        # Video conversion
│   │   ├── image.py        # Image conversion
│   │   ├── document.py     # Document conversion
│   │   ├── compressor.py   # File compression
│   │   └── ocr.py          # OCR service
│   ├── static/
│   │   ├── css/styles.css  # Styling
│   │   └── js/app.js       # Frontend logic
│   └── templates/          # HTML templates
├── uploads/                # Temporary uploads
├── outputs/                # Converted files
├── requirements.txt
└── run.py                  # Entry point
```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

Environment variables (optional):

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `FLASK_DEBUG` | `False` | Enable debug mode |
| `MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH` | `500MB` | Maximum upload size |
| `UPLOAD_FOLDER` | `./uploads` | Upload directory |
| `OUTPUT_FOLDER` | `./outputs` | Output directory |
